Good morning everyone.
Welcome to session 511, Game Solutions:
Graphics and Events.
That's great, we have a full house.
There are some available seats over here
for you guys if you want to take them.
This is the first of a series
of two dedicated game sessions
here at WWDC this year.
The contents of these sessions were
a result of some research we've
done with our game community through
mailing lists and direct contact
so we could tailor these sessions to
the most frequently challenged space
by game developing on Mac OS X.
We have some really good content
but we're also looking forward to
your feedback and your questions
afterwards so we can further improve
game technologies on the Mac.
We have two presenters,
two game experts DTS engineers here and
for the first part of the presentation
we'd like to welcome to the stage
Apple DTS engineer David Hill.
Thank you, Sergio.
As Sergio said,
welcome to our first of two
sessions in this very room.
And we're going to be talking to
you about graphics and events today.
I am David Hill and my cohort,
Todd Previt is hiding somewhere.
We'll be talking to you today.
I'll start out the talk and then
he'll come up for the second half.
So what are we going to
be talking about today?
We decided to take a slightly
different approach to these sessions
this year than we did in the past.
This year,
rather than focusing on a specific
technology and trying to cover
it and kind of repeating a lot
of what the engineering groups
are doing in other sessions,
we're going to focus on some more unique
aspects of Mac OS X game development,
perhaps some undocumented or
under-documented areas that you
may have run into troubles with,
and cover a few little tips and
tricks that we've picked up,
both in our work and
working with developers,
and just general things we've
picked up off the mailing list.
and also maybe cover a few things
that are a little bit new to some
of you that are just coming from
Mac OS 9 and haven't really started
exploring what you can do with Mac OS X.
So what are you going to learn?
We're going to cover a
wide range of topics today.
First, I'm going to start out and give
a brief update of what's happened
with the CG Direct Display API.
There have been some additional
APIs added to help you out with Jaguar.
Then I'm going to go into some
full-screen debugging techniques.
We found some developers that were having
a little bit of trouble on Mac OS X when
you capture all the displays,
your app takes over the displays,
everything goes black.
Well, if you've got a bug
and your app gets hung,
what do you do?
We're going to cover
a little bit of that.
I'm also going to give a little
bit of explanation about how you
can go put Carbon controls and
other content on top of OpenGL.
If you've seen some of the GL sessions,
they've been downloading some really
amazing new features and tools.
They've been talking about some
new things that you can do to
layer Carbon and Cocoa content
on top of your OpenGL surface.
I'll be talking about one example,
a couple of examples of that,
and going into detail about one
that actually does work both
on Mac OS 10.1 and on Jaguar.
Once I get done, I'll bring Todd up and
he's going to cover some
QuickTime and OpenGL integration,
how to get data out of
OpenGL and into QuickTime,
some OpenGL buffer operations,
and then a little bit
about Carbon events.
So let's talk about CG Direct Display.
As some of you may or may not know,
CG Direct Display is the
Mac OS X API for managing displays,
for doing--iterating over your displays,
finding out what modes they support,
switching between modes,
doing gamma fades and
those kinds of things.
And it's been around since the
beginning of Mac OS X and we've
been improving it as we go.
And this year we've added
a few new things in Jaguar.
For some of you,
you've been asking specifically,
"How do I tell if a display mode
is stretched?" If you don't know,
on some of the monitors like the
LCD panels we have and on the
tie books and things like that,
the aspect ratio on the
display is slightly different.
So there's an 800 by 600 aspect
ratio and then there's an--I don't
remember what the exact numbers are,
but there's another one
that's a little bit wider,
it has more pixels.
And you have a choice whether you want
to stretch that 800 by 600 content all
the way across those extra pixels or
whether you want to leave it 800 by
600 and have black bars on the sides.
So the stretched mode is the
one that stretches it out.
And depending on your
content and your users,
you may want to be able to tell,
"Is the mode I'm going to switch
to or the mode I'm currently in,
is it stretched or not?"
Some gameplay--some game players
may want to fill the whole screen.
They hate the little black bars.
And some of them may want to make
sure your art is at the right
aspect ratio and maintain that.
So in the display mode dictionary,
when you get information
about a particular display
mode in Direct Display,
you're going to want to
check the display mode.
You can actually check this
KCG display mode is stretched flag.
And it'll tell you whether
or not it's stretched.
We've also added a lot of support for
both software and hardware mirroring.
And in order for you to be able
to tell what's going on in the
system when your app comes up,
you need to be able to tell whether a
particular display is mirrored or not,
whether it's the main display in a mirror
set or whether it's one of the copies.
For the most part, for your game,
when you're using CG Direct Display,
you're not going to care.
If you capture the main display in a set,
it will capture all of them.
If you capture one of the copies,
it will also implicitly
capture all of the others.
So CG Direct Display helps you out there.
You don't have to worry
about that too much.
But in cases where you want to, say,
do a gamma fade,
you may have to fade all of
the monitors individually.
And so you'll need to know
what you're dealing with.
And so we've added some
extra APIs for that.
In addition,
we've had some developers asking, well,
if I've got multiple displays,
can I change the resolutions
or the bit depths or whatever
on all of them at once?
Well, we have a new concept of display
configuration where you can say,
I want to begin a configuration.
I want to set monitor one to this,
monitor two to this,
monitor three to this.
OK, end the configuration and commit it.
And they'll all change at once.
So that's another useful
technique for you.
We've also added a convenience
API to just capture all
the displays with one call.
So if your game is going to
be drawing on one display,
but you definitely want to
black everything out for the
most immersive experience,
one call you can capture all
the displays and be ready to go.
And then we've also added some
APIs to allow you to control fading.
A lot of times your game may want
to fade to black and then back
up to a movie or vice versa to do
transitions between areas in your game.
We've got fade APIs that
are very simple to use.
You make one call to reserve a display
for some amount of time and then
you say fade from the current normal
color set to a particular color.
You can fade to black,
you can fade to red, whatever,
over a specific span of time.
And so you can do everything
from simply fading the display
to black and then back up.
You can do a quick flash to
red if somebody gets hurt.
Those kinds of things.
And one really nice thing about these
APIs is there's a flag at the end,
if you look in the
CG Direct Display header,
there's a flag at the end that tells
whether it's synchronous or asynchronous.
So you can actually make a call
that's asynchronous and you say,
okay, over the next three seconds
I want you to fade to black.
It immediately comes right back to you.
And the Windows server handles the fade.
And so you can continue
to play your movie,
you can continue to fade out
at the end of your game play,
what have you.
Real nice effect.
So those are the new things
for CG Direct Display.
So let's talk about
full-screen debugging.
So a typical scenario,
you've written your full-screen game.
Your game captures the
screen and fades to black.
You know, everybody knows,
the game's supposed to fade right
back in and display your new content,
but it doesn't.
So what do you do?
How do you tell what went wrong?
How do you debug that situation?
We looked at a couple of
possible scenarios for this.
There are some standard things
like printf and other logging where
you just sprinkle calls throughout
your code and watch the log and
try to find out what's going on.
There's also,
if you happen to be using DrawSprocket,
if you come over from 9 and
you're still using DrawSprocket,
DrawSprocket has a debug mode
that you may or may not know
about that could be very helpful.
Then there's the topic we're
going to focus on a little bit
today which is remote debugging.
So we'll look at each of those
in turn and kind of think
about what's good and bad.
So for printf and other logging,
it's good for post-mortem
debugging because when you
capture the display on Mac OS X,
display goes black,
the force quit command,
command option escape, still works,
but in this case,
we don't know what state the
screen's going to be in or anything,
so we simply kill the frontmost app,
which is very helpful
when you're debugging,
you get something wrong and
you need to quit the app.
The problem is you don't get any
state information about where
the app was when you killed it.
So printf and other logging,
you can go look at the log
after you've killed the app,
take a look at it and
find out what's going on.
It does require that
you modify your code,
so you have to sprinkle
these statements throughout.
And if you're not exactly
sure where the problem is,
you may have to get into this
binary search mode where you say,
okay, well, I'm going to put a log in
here and a log in here,
okay, it happens somewhere in between.
So I put a log in in the middle,
and then, okay, it happened in the first
half or the second half,
kind of divide and conquer approach.
It's not the most efficient way to debug.
We happen to be using DrawSprocket.
DrawSprocket has a nice debug mode that
doesn't show the blanking window and
doesn't completely fade the screen out.
When you do a fade,
it will actually fade partially
out and then come back,
so you can still see what's going on.
And one good thing about this is
it does work on Mac OS 9 or 10.
So if you want to turn
DrawSpark at debug mode on,
there's two ways.
You can do it programmatically
within your app.
You can call it DSP set
debug mode to true,
call it DSP set debug mode to false
when you want to turn it back off.
Or you can create a folder
in the same directory as your
app called DSP set debug mode.
One important caveat to this is that
you have to enable this before you
enable your context because it takes,
before you activate your context
because it starts to take
effect with the next context.
And on 9, specifically,
you must be using the
debug build of DrawSpark.
On Mac OS X, the DrawSpark framework
takes care of this for you.
You don't have to worry about switching
builds of DrawSpark in and out.
So that's a good thing to think about
if you're still using DrawSpark.
And now we're going to talk
about remote debugging.
So this is a great thing,
a great power of Mac OS X because
unlike 9 when your game is taken over
the screen and perhaps locked in a
tight loop not processing events,
on 10 there's all these
other processes running.
So if you do have a second machine
handy somewhere on the network you
can actually remote login using SSH
and then tell what's
going on in your program.
You can attach to it with GDB,
find out where it's going,
you can actually step through.
Now of course GDB is a command line tool,
doesn't provide an IDE,
but contrary to some, you know,
misconceptions,
it does allow for source level debugging.
When you compile your
code with Project Builder,
say, it actually embeds in there
where the source files are.
So when you go with GDB,
it can actually pull up the source
for you and you can step through line
by line and watch what's going on.
So for those of you that perhaps
aren't familiar with GDB,
especially some people coming
from 9 that have never really
used something like this,
Probably the first place you should
start playing around is in the help.
There's a basic command help,
and it'll list a number of different
options you can use for getting help.
The two important ones are
help and a command class name,
in which case GDB will actually
list out all the commands.
For example, there's a class of commands
for handling breakpoints.
There's a class of commands
for dealing with the stack,
for showing info about the
state of the program and things.
And once you figure out, okay,
I need to know about that
specific breakpoint command,
well, then you can help in the
specific command name,
and that'll give you
the full documentation,
tell you how to use it.
So there's a lot of help in there,
very useful.
You can just get in and
start playing around with it.
So if you want to start using GDB,
and in our scenario that
we talked about earlier,
your app is running, it's faded out,
it's gone to black, hasn't come back.
Well,
typically you'll go to a second machine,
and I will point out that
because of the way this is done,
it doesn't have to be another Mac.
Some of you may be dual
platform developers,
you have a PC and a
Mac in the same office,
you're running your code on the Mac and
it goes black and doesn't come back.
You can simply go over to the PC,
and as long as you have
access to secure shell,
and secure shell into an IP address,
you can do the same debugging,
because GDB is actually
running on the target machine,
not on your PC.
So once you've secured
Sheldon and you run GDB,
you need to find out
what the process ID is.
That's the PID that I have labeled there.
And you need to attach to it.
The AppDir is a tool that allows
you to run your apps in the app.
If you have a problem,
you can launch it from within GDB.
You type in file and the path to the
app you're going to debug and then run.
For typing in the path,
you have to watch out
because once you get on 10,
you're doing a lot of bundled apps.
You have to give the path to the
actual executable inside the bundle,
not the bundle itself.
In this case,
if you're AppDir/content/macos/
and the actual executable,
the app to debug.
And then you can run that
and GDB will launch it,
load it into libraries and everything.
So, I don't know about you, but for me,
I'm used to a debugger that has, okay,
step into, step over, step out, continue,
those kinds of commands.
And GDB has the very same things.
They're in respective order, step, next,
finish, and continue.
And you can typically abbreviate those.
GDB is pretty good about trying
to figure out what you mean.
and it will tell you if you try
to give an ambiguous abbreviation.
And so that gives you all of your
basic source level debugging,
stepping and everything.
Once you've actually gotten
into your source code,
you need to set breakpoints.
There's a couple of different
ways to go about this.
You can specify by file and line number,
by function name.
An interesting one to point out
there is that little FB there.
That's a fun one for GDB that
I haven't seen in some other things.
It's called Future Break.
You can set a future break on a file and
a line number or just a function name.
And every time GDB has to load--every
time your app loads in a new library,
GDB loads in the symbols and
tries to match that function name
against the libraries that come in.
And so you can actually set a
breakpoint in a library that
hasn't even been loaded yet.
It can be pretty handy,
especially if you're debugging
plug-ins or other things like that.
Also, you need to know how to
get rid of breakpoints.
You can either clear by an address
or delete by a breakpoint number.
So the next logical question is,
"How do you find breakpoints?" You can
find out what the breakpoint number is.
It typically tells you when you set it.
And also you can type
in info breakpoints,
and it'll give you a list of the
current breakpoints and whether
they're enabled or disabled and
those kinds of state information.
So once you've stopped at a breakpoint,
you've got to figure out
what's going on in your app.
And there's some really simple commands.
BT is a good one to remember.
It gives you a stack backtrace.
You can find out about
the local variables.
globals and static variables.
If you see a variable in the source
that you're looking at and you
can't remember what type it is,
you can type what is variable name
and it'll show you what type it is.
If you want to actually
list parts of the source,
you can type list.
And by default it shows you the
area around the program counter.
You can type list and a line
number and it'll show you
the list and a current file.
You can even type list and a file
name colon and a line number and it'll
show you source from a different file.
And if you need to gather information
about the current source file,
you can type info source.
That's another helpful one.
Displaying variables is interesting.
There's a P command that
will print variables.
There's also a really powerful X command.
I'm not sure exactly what it stands for.
Maybe extended print.
Who knows?
And you type X slash a format specifier
and an address or variable name.
You can even include a repeat count.
And you can specify a
number of different formats,
decimal, float, hexadecimal,
how you want to display it, and the size.
And so, for example,
if you had a float variable,
you could type X slash F and a
float variable name and it would
display floating point content.
Depending on what kind of
debugging you're doing,
you may need to tweak variables
so you continue execution if
you've got something broken.
You can set a variable
name equal to a new value.
That will update it and you
can continue from there.
For those of you that are starting
to explore Cocoa and Objective-C,
there's some built-in
functionality there.
There's a PO command.
You give PO an Objective-C object ref,
and that will actually print out
the contents of that variable.
That's an interesting point because
what it's actually doing is calling
the description method on the object.
A lot of Objective-C objects have a
knowledge way to describe themselves.
This call will actually call
code in your app on that class
and have it describe itself.
So GDB doesn't have to
know anything about it.
So even for your custom classes,
if you implement description methods,
you can actually have it executed.
And that brings me to perhaps one of
the most powerful functions of GDB.
You can actually call functions
in your code from GDB.
And the typical way you would do it,
you would call and give it a return type,
a function name, and whatever arguments.
And for those of you dealing with CF,
you've probably run
across this one before,
CFShow.
Very useful, I always forget it.
Returns void, CFShow,
and any CF type ref,
and it will describe the object for you.
So that one's pretty helpful.
This is also extremely
useful in your own code.
A lot of you have your
own debugging functions,
have your own, you know,
tell me the state of this object,
validate this object,
those kinds of functions.
You can call them
directly from within GDB.
that's kind of hard to
do in other debuggers.
You can call it directly from there,
you know,
dump my internal state for some object.
It's important to watch
out for side effects,
though.
This does execute code in your app.
So if you make state changes to objects
when you're doing these kinds of things,
you may get some weird side effects as
you go along because you're changing
the state when you didn't expect
to in your program because you're
calling things sort of out of order.
So watch out for that.
So I thought we'd run you
through a real quick demo.
This is demo two here.
So we're going to pull
up full-screen debug.
And I've basically written a really
simple app that captures the screen.
and oh look,
that doesn't look quite right.
I'm not coming back.
So if we can switch over
to number three here,
we've got our handy terminal.
And we're going to try to do this live,
so 86, 63, and 161.
Yes, that's a good idea.
Bigger, let's go bigger.
Can you all read that now?
Is that a little better?
Yeah.
OK.
So now we're logged into this machine.
So all I had to know,
I had to be able to run SSH from here,
I had to know the
IP address and the password.
In this case, because I didn't specify to
SSH who I was logging in as,
it just assumed I wanted to log
in as the user I'm logged in here,
Apple.
So I have to know the password
for Apple on that machine.
So here I am.
And I need to know where that process is.
So we look through this output,
and it looks like this is it right here.
Running off the desktop.
And so I can say, well, please, I'm GDB,
and attach to, what was that number?
624.
So GDB finds that process and it
loads in the shared libraries.
Boy, this is a lot faster on
a dual processor machine.
I want one of these.
Okay, so now we're switched.
And we say, okay, well,
where did we stop?
Well, looking at this,
I can see that from my
main I was calling sleep.
Told you this was a simple app.
And it's stuck way down
in there somewhere.
So the important thing here is
I don't really care about clock,
sleep, trap, nano sleep, sleep, whatever.
One of the things you can
do is you can type finish.
This is a camera run until
I exit from clock sleep trap.
That puts me back at nano sleep.
Well, I found this bug yesterday.
If we look at the backtrace again,
that doesn't look quite right.
So it turns out, and this doesn't happen
on all of my apps,
I tried it on a couple of things,
there appears to be a bug in GDB,
I think it's a known bug,
at least from some of
the Project Builder guys,
that Finish doesn't, always.
Now, it appears to just get a little
confused as to what the backtrace is.
Now, the important thing is
the app is still fine.
So I can step, and we happen to be near
the end of NanoSleep.
So step takes me to sleep.
And if I step again, oh good,
I'm back out in my code.
So watch out for that.
This is on the Jaguar seed that you have.
It appears to be a little flaky,
at least as far as backtrace finish goes.
So now we're back in our code,
and I can type list.
And oh look, I'm in a loop.
I'm asking some other function,
should I loop?
And then I'm sleeping.
So let's step,
which will actually step in.
Okay, now I'm in should I loop.
Let's take a look at what I'm doing.
Okay, so I
Thank you for joining us.
I'm David Hill,
and I'm going to talk about the most
important part of the process of creating
a balanced and efficient Mac OS X.
I'm David Hill,
and I'm going to talk about the most
important part of the process of creating
a balanced and efficient Mac OS X.
which is,
I should actually show you that.
So here are my local variables.
Wait for GDB is a local
variable set to one.
And none of the code that I showed
you am I actually changing that.
So silly me, I goofed up.
So let's just set that wait for GDB
Back to zero.
And if we continue from here,
it'll go wait, sleep for a second,
and then oh look,
We're back.
So now I'm back out of that loop
and I'm going on with my program.
And in this case we can
just quit and go on.
So let me quit out of GDB right quick.
Okay, so that's my connection.
Good deal.
All right, so that's your real simple
introduction to GDB.
It's real easy to use.
You can start playing with it,
get in there and take a look
and see what you can do.
So let's go back to number one.
We've got a few more
slides to talk about here.
Okay,
so you know how to debug a little bit.
Now let's look at something
more interesting that came
about with the announcement
of Jaguar and Quartz Extreme.
People start to get interested in, oh,
well, we can now layer all this content.
And, you know, I have a game editor, say,
and I want to be able to have
my OpenGL content displayed
in all of its splendor and put
some controls over the top.
How do I do that?
We're going to look at a
couple of possibilities.
One possibility is always you
can implement your own controls.
You guys know how to do graphics,
know how to do events and things.
You can implement your own controls.
You can pick a normal window and put
those controls in a higher level window.
You can use one of the new
overlay windows in Carbon,
which is completely transparent and
then you can draw your content in it.
Or you can use some of the
new surface ordering APIs that
we introduced in Jaguar.
So if we look at those one by one,
you decide to implement
your own controls,
you have extremely precise
control over the drawing
because you're doing everything.
And you can place it
on screen with OpenGL.
You would typically render your
controls into a texture and
put them on screen with OpenGL,
say.
Your users are going to expect at
least some level of consistency
with the app and the OS.
So you have to kind of try to
mimic the Aqua user experience.
And you also do have to
draw everything yourself.
So that's a bit of work.
And unless you already
have code to do that,
I don't particularly recommend it.
You can place controls
in a higher window.
If you do an opaque window,
just a normal-- you can ask
Carbon to create a window
with no borders and no shadow.
You can layer that on top
of your OpenGL content.
So it's just a layer-- a
window floating on top.
You don't have to draw the controls.
You can put normal Carbon controls in it.
And you don't have to handle
any of the event interaction.
The problem is it's opaque.
So it blocks out a rectangular
area of whatever your content is.
And you may or may not want that,
depending on how you have
your content laid out.
And you're going to
have multiple windows.
And I'll tell you how to get around
some of the management problems
with multiple windows in a minute.
So what if we wanted to show
our content through the window?
We just had a round button
we want to put on our window.
We want the rest to be transparent.
We can use an overlay window.
Again, the OS handles the controls.
You don't have to mess with them.
And your OpenGL content can show
through except for where you've
made that overlay window opaque.
Now, the cons are you will have a speed
penalty if you're in the software
compositor as opposed to Quartz Extreme,
and you still have those
multiple windows to manage.
and then the new thing we've introduced
for Jaguar is surface ordering.
With surface ordering
you can actually take
The ordering of the surface
is the OpenGL surface and the
window back buffer surface.
And normally, you can rearrange them.
Normally,
you have the OpenGL surface on top.
And for those of you that
have tried to actually draw,
say,
quick draw content on top of your OpenGL,
you always say, well, it never shows up.
And then as soon as I dispose
of the OpenGL context,
well, there's my drawing.
Why wasn't it there?
Well, it's actually just in a surface
behind the OpenGL surface.
With this API,
you can put the OpenGL surface behind
the back buffer surface for the window.
And if you clear out the alpha
properly in the back buffer,
you can actually do the same
kinds of tricks where you put,
say, a Carbon button that's transparent
around it on top of your OpenGL content.
So this you can do with Carbon and Cocoa.
The OpenGL content does show through.
Again, there's a speed penalty if you're
using the software compositor.
And it does require Jaguar,
so you have to be aware of that.
So for those of you that can't
quite require Jaguar yet,
especially since it hasn't shipped,
you might want to look
at the overlay windows.
Overlay windows can actually give
you reasonably good speed and
they do allow your content to
show through and they will work on
Mac OS X1 and on Jaguar when it ships.
So what do you have to do?
Well you have to create the
overlay window obviously.
And then in order to help you
manage those multiple windows,
there's a concept of window groups.
You can create a window group and
add your windows to it and the
window manager will actually manage
a lot of those windows for you.
And then you install your controls
and your Carbon event handlers
and all those kinds of things.
Todd will talk a little bit more
about Carbon event handlers later.
So creating an overlay window,
you use the standard
Carbon Create New Window call.
The important thing to
know is you have to pass
OverlayWindowClass instead of your normal
DocumentWindowClass or what have you.
And you get back a window ref.
So then we need to create a window group.
And a real simple API.
And in this case we're not
passing any group attributes in.
We're going to set them at the end
and I'll talk about them there.
You have to tell the window
group what its parent is.
In this case we're just saying, "Ah,
let it live with the document windows.
That's fine."
And then for each of our windows,
say we have an OpenGL window
ref and an overlay window ref,
we add each of those to that group.
And then we're going to set
some important attributes.
And there are a number
of things you can set.
In my particular case,
I want the windows to move together.
So I've got a main document window and
I've got an overlay window over the top.
And when I drag the main document window,
I don't want to have to mess
with the overlay window.
I want the overlay
window to move with it.
So that's the first one.
Add or move together.
Layer together means if I switch
that document to the back and
bring it back to the front,
those windows stay together.
That's very handy.
And also hide on collapse means
if I collapse the main window,
the overlay window goes with it.
And then if I bring it back,
it'll automatically repaint the
overlay window when it comes back.
So let's look at a quick demo of that.
All right, we're up.
Let's go back over here.
Actually, I bet I'm in the dock.
We planned ahead.
So let's just pick an image.
And for those of you that
have been paying attention,
I have liberally borrowed from
Jeff's excellent OpenGL image sample.
And so what we're seeing here is just
OpenGL image sample and I've simply
put in an overlay window over the top.
So, and I put it in a group
and it's layered together.
So, this big red thing here is
actually some quartz 2D drawing.
So that's layered on top and it's nicely,
you know, transparent and you
can see if you zoom in,
I don't think the accessibility
stuff is turned on,
but if you zoom in you can see
it's anti-aliased and everything.
And I've also got one
lonely little Carbon button.
So what happens if I click this button?
So I've just leveraged
the app as it exists.
Jeff has a command Carbon event handler
that takes commands from buttons
and menus and those kinds of things.
And I've just co-opted
the auto-rotate command.
So this button just has the same
command ID as that menu item.
So I can stop and start,
and I can drag it around
while it's rotating.
And if you notice,
you look in that bottom left corner,
for those that you can read it,
it displays the frame rate.
And we're doing this
at 60 frames a second.
And I'm not doing anything
too terribly bright.
I've got an overlay window that's
the entire size of this content.
And I can drag it around
while it's moving.
all sorts of things,
and the Windows server keeps
everything nice and tidy.
If you were doing this for real and, say,
you had a button and this other thing,
you might want to make the
overlay window smaller,
so especially in the
software compositor case,
it has less work to do,
less compositing to do,
because in the software compositor case,
the compositing happens on the CPU,
but this nice GL content
happens on the card,
so it has to read back across the bus,
do the compositing and software,
and put it back.
But you still get
reasonably good frame rates,
and if you optimize it some, like I said,
if you make the overlay window
small and another small window here,
you can carry off effects like
this even on 10.1 in the software
render and get really good results.
Okay, so that's the simple image demo.
All right, we're back to slides.
So that's it for my half.
I've covered CG Direct Display changes,
some full-screen debugging introduction,
and also how to put Carbon,
and you can also do it with Cocoa,
controls over OpenGL content.
Now we're going to bring Todd up,
and he's going to talk to
you about event loop timers,
quick time in OpenGL,
and OpenGL buffer operations.
Thanks, David.
So I'm going to start first going
into event loops and timers,
then into, as David said,
QuickTime and OpenGL,
and then following up with
some buffer operations in
So here's the story on Carbon events.
This is how you get into it.
Run application event loop from your
main function is what actually kicks you
into the whole Carbon event structure.
And when you're ready to quit out of it,
quit application event loop is what will
bring you back out next to the shell.
I've also included a little
addendum about wait next event
down there at the bottom.
Wait next event is dead, folks,
and it's time to start
moving on to Carbon events.
Everybody has complained historically
about the performance of Carbon events
and with a lot of the changes that we've
made in the recent builds of Carbon lib,
I think you'll find that performance
is definitely there and it's going
to do better for you in the future.
So some basic structure on Carbon events.
It's kind of broken
down into event levels.
These are the four main levels.
I believe there might be one or two more,
but these are the ones that you're
really going to be concerned with.
At the application level,
these are events that are to
be received by the application
at the highest possible level.
They have the highest possible priority,
and they're usually
reserved for things like
Human Interface Toolbox Commands.
You can accept any Carbon event at
this level because you can always
handle it as it's the highest
application level and everything
will actually roll down into it.
But it's kind of the catch-all
and if you don't handle it here,
it gets kicked back to the
system and usually if you've
installed a default handler,
the default handler
will take it from there.
Window events or the window event level
constrains all your events to the window.
This becomes really important
for things like mouse events.
If you register for mouse
events at the window level,
your mouse motion stops once the
cursor moves outside of the window.
Certain games and certain
applications will want to take
advantage of something like that.
Others,
for full-screen apps or for windowed
applications where if you have
multiple monitors and you want
to have the mouse still continue
moving the screen in the game,
even after you pass outside the window,
you'd want to register for your
mouse events at the application
level instead of at the window level.
Otherwise,
you'll end up pinning your mouse
cursor to the side of the window,
at least as far as the game is concerned,
while all the mouse moving events
and stuff will stop once that
cursor leaves the window region.
The menu event level is
pretty much just that.
It's all about your menus and that's
where you would register for handling
commands off your menus and for
anything else that's related to them.
And then the control level is basically
the lowest level possible and it
allows you to install individual event
handlers right into the control itself.
My personal preference is actually
to have one handler deal with all the
controls in my application if I can,
as opposed to having individual
handlers on the controls themselves.
A little further down
are the event classes.
The event levels is where you
register for these events.
The event classes are the actual
events that you register for.
I just put some samples up there.
This is certainly by no
means an exhaustive list,
but these are some of the more important
ones that you'll be using quite often.
Mouse events, keyboard events,
window events, and menu events.
As I discussed just a few minutes ago,
the mouse events will give
you things like button clicks.
They'll give you your motion,
your mouse deltas.
That's a particularly important
one for game developers.
We were asked about that quite a bit.
They've been there for quite a while.
They work really, really well.
As a matter of fact,
I use them in several of my applications.
and the mouse class events deal
entirely with the mouse scroll wheels,
motion, all that kind of stuff.
Your keyboard events will give you
everything from key up and key down,
all the modifiers,
and everything related to
receiving events from keyboards.
Window events give you things
like activation and deactivation,
show and hide, grow, shrink,
all those sort of things that
control the behavior of a window.
The menu events are,
as I described just a few minutes ago,
dealing with selections of items,
which items are selected.
I believe also through the
Carbon event structures how you can
programmatically change the text in
your menu items and things like that.
So what is an event,
how do you get these events and
how do you register for them?
Well, as part of the installation,
as you'll see in a minute,
you have to give an event type
count as to how many events
you're actually passing in to the
handle that you're installing.
This particular one comes
from application level events.
It's the event type specifier,
and I just called it App Event List,
which is a list of all the events
that you want to handle at this
particular application level.
You can pass any event list to any
level to install on any handle.
I just happened to choose the
application one for demonstration here.
I've highlighted a couple
of the more important ones.
The KEVENTCLASS command, that was,
as I discussed, about the human interface
toolbox commands.
These are things like OK, Redo, Undo,
Cancel.
That's where all of
those will get handled.
Obviously the mouse events,
as I just described,
are not going to be handled.
You can see how these are broken down.
I'm actually registering here for,
as far as the mouse event classes go,
I'm registering for mouseDown, mouseUp,
and for mouseDragon and mouseWheelMoved.
I'm not registering for mouseDeltas,
but that's another one that
you could also register for.
At that point,
wherever you installed that
particular handler is where
that event would get handled.
This is what they look like.
As I said, the command processes, OK,
QUIT, COMMAND, OK, QUIT, UNDO, etc.
This is how they're structured.
How do you actually install these things?
For basic use, what you want to do is,
before you install any event handler,
in case there's something
you don't cover,
you always want to install
the standard handlers.
This is not required,
but it's usually a good idea.
They're very simple to do.
The function protocols are right there.
What you want to do is when you call
the Install the Standard Event Handler,
say you want to install it on the window,
that's the top one over here.
This is Get Window Event Target.
You pass in a pointer to your window.
I believe it's a window
ref or a window pointer.
That's all you have to do.
Then the system will automatically go
through and it will put the default
handlers and install them on that window.
Now it will handle
everything that you don't.
If you explicitly specify
other events that you want to
handle in your application,
those will take precedence
over the standard handler.
The other two here are just
the standard handlers for the
application and menu events.
For the application event target,
you don't have to pass anything in.
It will just grab the current
process and install it on that.
Whereas the menu event handler,
you have to pass in a
handle to your menu.
This is the basic setup
of installing your own.
The app command processor variable
right there is actually an
event universal process pointer.
We're just creating it
with new event handler UPP.
The function parameter there is
actually the name of the function
that we're going to use as a
callback when we receive events.
The following function there,
Install Application Event Handler,
is actually a macro for
Install Event Handler,
but you can see these
all in carbonevents.h.
It's really just kind of a
shortcut for installing a
handler into the application.
The first parameter there
is our command processor,
which is the routine that will be
called as our callback and will
deal with the events directly.
As I showed you earlier,
getEventTypeCount will pass in
the number of events that you
specified in the app event list.
It's kind of handy because that way
you don't have to count up how many
events you have in your event list and
then have to pass that in manually.
It just does it for you.
The app event list there is that
list of events that we created
before with the event type spec.
You can pass in any user data if you
want to through the next parameter.
If you want to keep a handle to this
particular routine after you install it,
you can pass in an event
handler ref at the end.
I never do.
All of your event handlers will
get uninstalled once you quit.
Timers are really useful
for a variety of things.
I use them all over the place.
The three main things that I do
is I use a control in my rendering
loop so I can either increase or
decrease my frame rate as I need
simply by reinstalling the timer.
It's really useful for things like that.
It works pretty well.
I've never seen any major
performance problems from it,
although there have been a few times
when I've passed in the wrong parameters
and ended up slowing way down.
It's also really good
for handling game events,
application events.
If you want to have a timer that's
sitting there waiting and processing
anything that happens to come in,
if you want to process events
that you have in your game or
create your own event loops,
then this is another good way to do it.
It's also good for time-based events.
If you wanted to, say,
take a snapshot in the future,
you just create a timer,
you pass in the start time,
you pass in a firing delay,
you want to take a picture
in five seconds of whatever
happens to be going on,
and then the timer will fire.
It's a one-shot deal,
and you've accomplished the task
that you wanted to accomplish.
So the first thing you want to do
is you want that event loop timer
ref to keep track of your timer.
You're going to need that later
for when you want to dispose of it.
The timer UPP is just that.
It's the universal procedure pointer for
the timer that you're going to create.
Again, you will need that later for
when you want to dispose of them.
The function prototype at the bottom
there is for the callback routine that
the timer will call every time it fires.
There's really not a whole lot
to them aside from passing in the
timer ref and any other data that
you want to send to the routine.
Here we create the snapshot
timer UPP by using new event
loop timer UPP and we pass in,
again, the name of the routine that
we want to use as our callback.
The first parameter you want to pass
in is where you want to install it,
as in if you want to install
it on your application,
which is pretty much the default.
I actually don't know if you can install
it on somebody else's application.
I haven't tried that,
but it would be pretty funny
if you could actually install a
timer into somebody else's app.
I haven't tried that.
The next parameter is the start delay,
and the following parameter
after that is the duration,
or the time interval between each firing.
You'll notice at the end of that that
I have a variable attached to the
multiplication of the constant there.
It's because this code
actually comes right out of the
CarbonGL snapshot demo that you'll
be seeing in just a few minutes.
What I do is I multiply the milliseconds
by my time interval so I can have it
take snapshots at varying intervals.
The Snapshot Timer UPP is the
one we created just above there.
The next parameter is any
user data you want to send.
The last parameter is that timer ref
we created on the previous screen.
So you've got this thing created
and you're happily sailing along,
but now you want to get rid of it.
So what do you do?
Remove event loop timer and
dispose event loop timer UPP.
Those are the only two functions
that you really need to call
to get rid of your timers.
The first one you pass in the timer ref,
the last one you pass in the timer UPP.
That gets rid of them and stops
them from firing regardless
of where they happen to be.
I always clear the pointers on my timers.
I use them for various other
things like I will look at them
and see if they're actually valid.
If they're valid,
I know I'm in the middle of taking
a sequence or I'm in the middle
of doing something in the timer,
so I don't go through and
start another sequence.
If somebody happens to be
pressing one of the activation
buttons very rapidly and it says,
"Start another timer,
start another timer,
start another timer," well,
I go through and I check and
make sure that those are null.
It's not required that you do this.
I just do it as a good habit.
Now we'll move on into
QuickTime and OpenGL.
Most of our demonstrations that
we've done with QuickTime and
OpenGL in the past have been
with getting movies into OpenGL,
getting images into OpenGL,
using all the various data that
QuickTime has as an input into OpenGL.
Well,
I've kind of reversed that and now I'm
using OpenGL as input into QuickTime.
There's three ways that I'm
going to show you how to do this.
The QuickTime snapshots are
actually just single image files
that are taken out of OpenGL.
The snapshot sequences are image
files that are created based on the
content of an OpenGL context over time,
and then a QuickTime movie
from OpenGL is just that.
It creates a movie based on the content
that was in the OpenGL buffer at the
time that the movie was being created.
So like I said, the snapshot uses data
from an OpenGL context to
build a simple image file.
It's one function.
It's a single function
that creates a single file.
The file format and type is arbitrary.
You can specify any format that
QuickTime happens to support,
which is--it keeps increasing
with every release that they do.
The whole goal here was to let
QuickTime do all of the work for you as
far as getting the image out to disk.
You don't have to worry about
swizzling it around much.
processing it or writing
your own file format parser.
QuickTime does it all for you.
So the basic methodology of what
we're doing is we're using GL read
pixels to get the image data out
of OpenGL in the first place.
Then we create a new GWorld with
that data so that we now have the
OpenGL image data in main memory in
a format that QuickTime recognizes.
Then you set up QuickTime to create
the image file with that data.
And those steps are very, very simple.
And it really just kind of follows
the same methodology as most of the
other QuickTime imaging methods,
which are you do a variety of things.
You specify your inputs, your outputs,
and you just tell it to do it,
and QuickTime just does.
The final step is to export
the data to the file.
So how do you do that?
How do you get data out of OpenGL?
This is a pretty basic operation.
The first thing you want to do is
set your read buffer to the back.
This is default.
OpenGL will always read from the back
buffer unless you specify otherwise,
but I've found that it's usually a good
idea to specify it anyways in case you
have been in some other part of your app.
If you've been reading from the
front or if you've been reading
from an aux buffer or from the
depth buffer or something like that,
then you want to go ahead and set it back
to the back buffer so you can read out
everything that's been drawn into it.
The next command is GL read pixels.
The first four parameters are
the dimensions of the area
that you want to read out.
In this case,
I've hard-coded it to 640 by 480.
I start at 00, which for OpenGL is the
lower left-hand corner,
and end it at 640 and 480,
which is the upper right-hand corner.
So I'm reading out the entire
contents of the back buffer as they
stand when this command is issued.
The next parameter to GL read
pixels is the format of the
pixels that you want to read out.
In this instance,
it's a reversed format which is BGRA.
There's a reason for this that
I will go into momentarily,
that you want to read things out in BGRA.
It makes things much easier.
It also puts you on the
fast path through OpenGL.
The next parameter there is the type.
So actually,
what is the type of one pixel?
In this case,
we're talking about an unsigned
integer that is broken down into four
8-bit fields that are now reversed
to match the BGRA type that we have.
Finally,
you pass in a handle to a data buffer,
and it is very important that
you allocate enough memory
to that data buffer before
you make this function call.
GL read pixels will not
allocate memory for you.
The last function there
is invert GL image,
which is just a little function that
I wrote to swizzle the image around
and get it into the proper orientation.
When you read data out of OpenGL,
it will be upside down and inverted.
So in order to get it to a
normal screen orientation,
so it's just as you see it
on the screen from OpenGL,
you have to swizzle it around.
Now, this particular function
takes the data buffer,
the image size,
and then the row bytes because it
actually goes through and does a
four-byte reversal all the way across.
So you actually get the proper image and
the proper format all the way through.
Now when you reverse BGRA,
what do you come out with?
ARGB.
That happens to be the "native"
format that the Macintosh supports,
and that's what puts you on
the fast path through OpenGL.
So the next thing we want to
do is create a new G World.
It's very important to use
new G World from pointer
and not just new G World.
New G World will give you a buffered
G World which you do not want.
At that point you would end up with
an image that's going to be off by
a great deal because it's going to
add an extra padding on the rows.
So new G World from pointer
gives you just a straight
G World with no padding whatsoever.
The first parameter is the destination
G World that you want to use,
which is a variable that
you would have specified.
The next is the format.
You'll notice that this is 32-bit ARGB,
which is exactly the reverse of
the one that I specified when
reading the data out of OpenGL.
Now that we've swizzled it around
with the invert GL image function,
it is in this proper format
and should be no problem.
The next parameter there is a rectangle,
the bounding rect of the
region that you're reading in.
The next three parameters
are color table,
G device, and flags.
You can pass zero or null.
They don't really have much effect
in this particular situation.
The parameter down near the bottom there,
the data buffer, that's the actual data
that we read out of OpenGL.
We'll pass that in there and
this quick draw is going to build
the new G world with that data.
Finally, we pass in the row bytes.
At the end of this,
we're going to need to
create a file spec somewhere,
as that's usually what
QuickTime wants to deal with,
for QuickTime to use to write out the
image when we finally get to that step.
QuicktimeComponents.h has a list
of the OS file type or OS type
file specifications for all the
various formats that it supports.
In this particular instance,
I'm using JPEG files.
They were the easiest
for me to deal with.
So these are the real,
I was talking about the really
simple steps that it takes
to get QuickTime set up.
Well these are them.
You just open a default component,
you tell it what the type is,
in this case we're going to
graphics exporter component.
We pass in the file type,
in this case OS file type
would be set to be a JPEG.
And then finally you pass in
the graphics exporter component,
or the address of the graphics exporter
component that you want to use,
which is another variable you
would have specified above.
Following that you
specify the input GWIRL,
which is the GWIRL we just created.
You just pass that to it.
Again, you're passing in the graphics
exporter component first,
and then you pass in the GWIRL.
Following that, you pass in that file
spec we just talked about.
That sets the output file
where QuickTime is going to
actually write out its image.
Next, if you need it for the file
format that you're using,
you'll want to specify
the compression quality.
At this point,
I've specified lossless quality.
There are a variety of
different ones that you can use.
Lossless will probably provide
the largest possible image and
the best possible quality for you,
but you can adjust that
depending on what you want to do.
Finally, the command that really does the
work there is "do export." Again,
you just pass in which
component you want to use,
which is the one you've
been using all along,
and out it goes.
That's what tells QuickTime,
"Do the work.
Write out the file.
Give me the image.
We're done." Finally, as a clean-up step,
you'll want to dispose of your
component and close the component
So the snapshot sequence actually
extrapolates on this function itself.
We started with one function which
was just taking the snapshot,
and the snapshot sequence is
going to use that function over
time to take a sequence of image
shots from the same back buffer.
Again, your type and format is arbitrary.
It doesn't matter.
Whatever you want to use,
you can use here as well.
And this will also be using the
Carbon timers to generate the sequence.
So, the way I controlled it from within
the timer was I just looked to
see how many frames that I had and
how many frames I wanted to take,
and I decrement that every
time I go through the loop.
Once I hit zero,
we stop the timer and stopping the
timer code was exactly what you
saw earlier with removing timers.
In Windows Snapshot,
I'm just passing in the main window.
It happens to be the function
parameter that that particular
snapshot function wants.
It's just how it's set up.
What you'd want to do here is
you'd want to take your snapshot,
call your function,
and then decrement your frame count.
So with QuickTime Movies,
it follows the same methodology.
However, what you're going to be doing
is you're going to be reading
the images into a buffer.
As a matter of fact,
I re-architected the application.
Initially, it was just the snapshot
sequence was doing all the
QuickTime stuff all in one block.
But to make things a little smoother,
what I did was I re-architected it
to follow this particular format,
which is it reads the data from
OpenGL as fast as it possibly can,
throws it into a buffer,
and an asynchronous task comes
along to process that buffer
and write them out to disk.
Now with the QuickTime Movie,
what you'll be doing is
you'll be creating a movie
using Add Movie to Frame,
I believe is the function
call from QuickTime,
and it'll just build the movie
right as you're going along.
So again,
it's going to be using GeoReadPixels
to grab the back buffer and to
send it off into the G world,
or into the G world
buffer as the case may be.
I created an array that is of an
arbitrary size at the present time,
but you can obviously hard code it or
you can specify a certain amount of
memory that you want to take up with it.
It all depends on how you want
to architect your application.
The key here is to have a
separate thread asynchronously
processing that particular buffer.
You want to go through there and
have it go through in a... If you're
on a dual processor machine,
use the other processor.
Don't be taking up the processor
that's actually processing
all the GL information.
You can keep rendering, keep going,
keep moving along in your game.
Meanwhile, in the background,
you're processing all these images out.
At the end of that, once all these things
have been processed,
you just have quick time to dump out
the movie in .mov or .avi format,
whatever you want.
Some things to remember
when you're doing this.
The images do need to be swizzled
when they're coming out of GL.
The routine that I'm using
is terribly unoptimized,
and so you would want to do this
probably with AltaVec in order to
get the most performance out of
it so you're not taking a hit when
you're swizzling that data around.
I would recommend doing the
processing of the image data
before you're building your images.
I'd recommend doing that asynchronously.
Again, if you don't,
you're going to see a serious
performance degradation.
Arbitrary movie sizes require much,
much more complex array
and buffer sizing routines.
I did some dynamic allocation,
but I do think I've pinned it
at either 128 or 256 megabytes.
So it'll suck up a lot of memory,
but it is pinned in
one manner or another.
Your frame size and frame rate
will affect how much memory
you should reserve for it.
Obviously,
the bigger your OpenGL context,
the more memory you're going to be taking
up with the data you read out of it.
Again, again,
if you want to do this all dynamically,
it's going to be more complicated.
So I'm going to do a little demo.
You can see what this looks like.
So I've got an OpenGL context here.
It's just kind of oscillating back
and forth so you can get an idea
of what the motion looks like.
Of course, when we click over here--it's
not obscured so we're not
seeing performance decrease.
When I take the first snapshot, I'm going
I didn't really see much happen there.
So I'll take another one.
And we'll take another one.
And there's the three
snapshots we took right there.
Zero, one, two, and three.
So if we open this up in preview.
There's zero, there's one,
and there's the third one.
All at different states in the context.
You can see that the graph on the
bottom there is moving back and forth.
So they're just kind of like
little snapshots in time.
We'll get rid of those.
Let's bring the application to the front.
As it's still oscillating around there,
let's go ahead and do 100 milliseconds.
So every 100 milliseconds we'll take
a snapshot of this moving context
here for a total of 10 frames.
So we click our sequence off.
Notice it kind of gets a little
chunky there as it was going through,
but there's all 10 snapshots.
And we can just go right through these.
Of course,
it would be nice if it put them in order,
wouldn't it?
So there's zero.
There's one.
There's two.
Oh, great, now I'm on eight.
So there's two, three, four.
[Transcript missing]
And then we'll go back to the slides.
So, I'm going to wrap up with a little
bit about OpenGL's buffers and some
operations you can do with them.
I'm really going to focus
on the auxiliary buffers
and then render to texture.
We've had a lot of questions
recently about some of the
rendering to texture stuff,
so I'm going to focus
pretty heavily on that.
A lot of people have resisted using
auxiliary buffers because you can't
go and use them both on 9 and 10.
On 9, they are available,
but it will dump you into
the software renderer,
so a lot of people avoid them.
This is going to show you how
to do some relatively cool
things with auxiliary buffers.
So some buffer basics.
A lot of people make requests to
access the front buffer directly and
do this and that and the other thing.
You ought to leave the
front buffer alone.
There's no reason to be
playing around with it.
You should do all your drawing and do
all your reading from the back buffer.
Whenever it needs to be
pushed to the screen,
the system will handle that for you,
either the Windows Server or GL directly.
There's no reason to be dinking
around with the front buffer.
And finally,
a little pet peeve of mine is
that nobody needs any direct
access to any of OpenGL's buffers.
For one, it's not going to happen because
OpenGL happens to move its handles
around internally whenever it wants to.
The memory space on the graphics
cards these days is all flat.
So when OpenGL needs to make some room
for a texture here or a texture there,
it's going to move handles
around and shuffle things around.
So you'll never know whether
or not they're current,
even if you could read them anyways.
If you could get a handle out of GL,
there's no guarantee that it would be
current the next time you went to use it.
So that's why no one is ever going
to get access to those buffers.
The Depth, Accum, and Stencil Buffers.
I put them on here just to kind of give,
for those of you who are not
terribly familiar with OpenGL,
I put them up here because they
are additional buffers that are
used very heavily by OpenGL.
The Depth Buffer especially
is for ordering and face
culling on your polygons,
where the Accumulation Buffer has
traditionally been used for compositing,
and the Stencil Buffer is for
drawing containment where you
want to just scissor out a portion
of the screen and just draw to
it or remove it or do whatever.
This is just kind of a little simple
overview to illustrate some of the issues
that we have with the buffers of OpenGL.
So what do you do with auxiliary buffers?
There's three main things you can do.
You've got damage repair,
you've got state saving
and rendering to texture.
Now this is, again,
by no means an exhaustive list,
but these are the common things
that most people do with them.
Damage repair means that if you move,
say, a cursor over a particular section
of your OpenGL context and you
need to get the background there,
you need to get that back behind it,
what you would do is you would save off
a little chunk over in your auxiliary
buffer and then blit it back across
whenever the cursor had left that area.
State saving: If, say,
you wanted to disconnect your
OpenGL context from your window and
then put it back or play QuickTime movie
through there or load something else,
you could disconnect,
save off your OpenGL,
or before you disconnect you
save off your OpenGL state,
you read it over into
the auxiliary buffer,
disconnect, and when you reconnected it,
it's going to clear that buffer,
you blit it back from
the auxiliary buffer,
and you've got your state back.
The final thing that you can
do with it is rendered texture.
Now there is still a
There is still a pixel copy
involved with using auxiliary
buffers to render the texture,
but it works very well and it's
a whole lot less complicated
than AGL surface texture.
So,
how are you going to actually render to
a texture with the auxiliary buffers?
Well, what you do is,
once you do all your drawing,
you can go ahead and use a copy text
image or copy text sub-image to read out
the particular portion of the buffer that
you want to read back in as your texture,
that you want to specify as your texture.
It's very easy to do, but like I said,
it still has a pixel copy.
The next method is AGL Surface Texture,
which is a little more complicated,
but there is no pixel
copy involved in it.
Finally,
I did want to mention Arb Render Texture,
which There's an extension
that has been developed by R,
but we do not currently support it,
As I was going through the
methodology of the aux buffers,
this is it.
You'd want to specify your
draw buffer as glAux0.
I specified aux0 because
it's the first aux buffer.
I believe our limit on
auxiliary buffers is 4,
so you could do 0 through 3.
Once you have that done,
you do all your drawing and you render
whatever you want to in the aux buffer,
and then finally you set your read
buffer to the aux buffer as well.
[Transcript missing]
AGL surface texture is a
little more interesting.
This one actually takes a separate
OpenGL context and then the
texture target and the format.
The first parameter is the main
context that will be using the texture.
The second and third parameter are your
texture target and your internal format.
Finally,
you have the surface context that
you want to be using as your texture.
So the methodology of it is very simple.
You create a P buffer,
an off-screen context,
to use as your texture.
You perform your drawing operations
and then you call AGL surface
texture using the aforementioned
parameters and then you specify the
surface context as the context that
you want to use as your texture.
So, AGL surface texture is Jaguar only,
so it won't be terribly useful
until after Jaguar is released.
The Xuri buffer solution, as I said,
is available on Mac OS X only,
and it does still require a pixel copy.
The surface texture does
not have a pixel copy,
but it does require another
OpenGL context to be present.
[Transcript missing]
This one's simple.
Any of you guys were at Jeff's demos,
you'd have seen this one before.
So basically what he's doing is the
context on the left is the surface
that he's drawing into and then
he's using that as a texture on all
the faces of the cube on the right.
Now this uses AGL surface texture,
this does not use aux buffers.
Aux buffers can do the same thing except
you wouldn't have the second context.
So I think at this point I'm
going to bring Sergio back up
here and he's going to go over
the roadmap and handle the Q&As.